Add 0.15.0 release notes (#928)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/community/releases/_index.en.md

+++
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-duplicate-header -->

## v0.15.0

### New features

> 

Reviewer: To be compliant with the [Kubernetes Multicluster Services specification][MCS KEP], service discovery now distributes a single aggregated `ServiceImport` to each cluster in the exported service's namespace. Previously each cluster distributed its own `ServiceImport` copy that was placed in the submariner namespace.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be compliant with the [Kubernetes Multicluster Services specification][MCS KEP], Service Discovery now distributes a single aggregated ServiceImport to each cluster in the exported service's namespace. Previously each cluster distributed its own ServiceImport copy that was placed in the `submariner-operator` namespace.
```

Reviewer 2: ... that was placed in the `submariner-operator` namespace

> * Submariner can now be installed on a dual-stack Kubernetes cluster. Currently, it does not support IPv6, but connectivity and
>   service-discovery would continue to work normally using IPv4 addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Submariner can now be installed on a dual-stack Kubernetes cluster although, currently, only IPv4 addresses are supported.
```

> * Added a `subctl recover-broker-info` command to recover lost `broker-info.subm` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a `subctl recover-broker-info` command to recover a lost `broker-info.subm` file.
```

* It is now possible to customize the default TCP MSS clamping value set by Submariner also for non-Globalnet deployments.
* The `subctl gather` command will now gather iptables logs for Calico and kindnet CNIs.

> * The `subctl gather` command now collects the `ipset` info from all the cluster nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `subctl gather` command now collects the `ipset` information from all cluster nodes.
```

> * The `subctl diagnose` command now validates the Calico IPPool configuration to match with Submariner requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `subctl diagnose` command now validates that the Calico IPPool configuration matches Submariner requirements.
```

* The following deprecated commands and variants have been removed:
  * `subctl benchmark`’s `--kubecontexts` option (use `--context` and `--tocontext` instead)
  * `subctl benchmark`’s `--intra-cluster` option (specify a single context to run intra-cluster benchmarks)
  * `subctl benchmark` with two `kubeconfigs` as command-line arguments
  * `subctl cloud`’s `--metrics-ports` option
  * `subctl deploy-broker`’s `--broker-namespace` option (use `--namespace` instead)
  * `subctl diagnose firewall metrics` (this is checked during deployment)
  * `subctl diagnose firewall intra-cluster` with two `kubeconfigs` as command-line arguments
  * `subctl diagnose firewall inter-cluster` with two `kubeconfigs` as command-line arguments
  * `subctl gather`’s `--kubecontexts` option (use `--contexts` instead)

### Other changes

* The namespace is now included in `EndpointSlice` names to avoid conflicts between services with the same name in multiple namespaces.

> * Fix issues in Azure cloud prepare:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed issues in Azure cloud prepare:
```

Author: We use `Fix` and `Bump` and other present tense verbs in all the recent release notes. This exact note is also in 0.13.4 and 0.14.2.

Reviewer: I see `Fixed` in some places. Past tense seems more natural to me. Present tense connotes an instruction to do so. Also L14 "_Added a ..._" is past tense. So to be consistent then that should be present tense but saying "_Add a ..._" doesn't make sense.

Reviewer: How about we avoid "fix" and say:

```suggestion
* Changes to Azure cloud prepare:
```

Author: I changed it to "Add a" (makes sense to me?).

I think we mostly use present tense. [Wikipedia says present tense](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Release_notes#:~:text=Release%20notes%20are%20frequently%20written,clear%2C%20correct%2C%20and%20complete.), [K8s seems to use a mix](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.9.md) (because it's auto-gen'd from commit messages I think).

Reviewer: Wikipedia says "Release notes are **frequently** written in the present tense..." but I don't think that necessarily means they **should** be. I don't want to belabor it but I still think past tense makes more sense but if the consensus is otherwise then I'm OK with it. @skitt @sridhargaddam @nyechiel

Reviewer 3: Even I feel using past tense makes more sense.

Reviewer 4: Looking at other projects I tend to write changelogs as imperatives, but that’s because I write them along with the commit message containing the change.

Given how we present Submariner changelogs, I think both present and past tenses make sense, depending on context; we could also use gerunds in some cases! When we explain what we did in a release (“fixed” etc.), past tense is appropriate IMO. When we describe behaviour introduced in a release, present tense makes sense (“Users no longer need to open ports …”, from the 0.14.0 release notes). I agree with Tom that it would be nice to avoid “fix” in general.

(We could change our introductions so that present tense makes sense in general: “This release … fixes foo, adds bar etc.” This is where gerunds could make sense, based on our current introductions: “This is a bugfix release, fixing foo …”)

Author: I think if we want to make a change like this we should agree on what we want and document it in https://submariner.io/development/website/style-guide/. We can then make changes to all the historic release notes to be consistent.

Author: It does look like we should refactor everything to past tense: https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/release-notes/#writing-good-release-notes

Author: https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-website/pull/930

  * Machine set names are now based on region + uuid and limited to 20 characters to prevent issues with long cluster names.
  * Machine set creation and deletion logic was updated to prevent creation of multiple gateway nodes.
  * Image names are now retrieved from existing machine sets.

> * Fix stale IPtable rules along with globalIP leak which can sometimes happen when a GlobalEgressIP is created and immediately deleted as

Reviewer: On L16 above we refer to "iptables" but here "IPtable". We should be consistent either way.

```suggestion
* IPtable rules are now properly cleaned up when a `GlobalEgressIP` is created and immediately deleted as
```

  part of stress testing.

> * Submariner now handles out of order remote endpoint notifications properly in various handlers associated with route-agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Submariner now handles out of order remote endpoint notifications properly in various handlers associated with the Route Agent component.
```

* Submariner now ensures that reverse path filtering setting is properly applied on the `vx-submariner` and `vxlan-tunnel` interfaces after
  they are created. This fix was necessary for RHEL9 nodes where the setting was sometimes getting overwritten.

> * Fix the flags for `subctl unexport service` not being recognized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The flags for `subctl unexport service` are now properly recognized.
```

> * Fix false error when `subctl diagnose cni` handles boolean-false fields.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this means....what was the PR?

Author: https://github.com/submariner-io/subctl/pull/570

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
* `subctl diagnose cni` no longer fails for the Calico CNI when the "natOutgoing" IPPool status is missing.
```

> 

Reviewer: https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/issues/936

```suggestion
A Service Discovery only deployment now works properly without the connectivity component deployed.
```

  * `subctl deploy-broker`’s `--broker-namespace` option (use `--namespace` instead)
  * `subctl diagnose firewall metrics` (this is checked during deployment)
  * `subctl diagnose firewall intra-cluster` with two `kubeconfigs` as command-line arguments
  * `subctl diagnose firewall inter-cluster` with two `kubeconfigs` as command-line arguments
  * `subctl gather`’s `--kubecontexts` option (use `--contexts` instead)
* Deprecate the `subctl cloud prepare ... --dedicated-gateway` flag, as it's not actually used.
* Deprecate the `subctl cloud prepare generic` command, as it's not actually used.

### Other changes

* Service Discovery-only deployments now works properly without the connectivity component deployed.
* The namespace is now included in `EndpointSlice` names to avoid conflicts between services with the same name in multiple namespaces.
* Changes in Azure cloud prepare:
  * Machine set names are now based on region + uuid and limited to 20 characters to prevent issues with long cluster names.
  * Machine set creation and deletion logic was updated to prevent creation of multiple gateway nodes.
  * Image names are now retrieved from existing machine sets.

> * Fix stale IPtable rules and a global IP leak which can sometimes happen when a `GlobalEgressIP` is created and immediately deleted as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix stale iptables rules and a global IP leak which can sometimes happen when a `GlobalEgressIP` is created and immediately deleted as
```

  part of stress testing.
* Label gateway nodes as infrastructure with `node-role.kubernetes.io/infra=""` to prevent them from counting against OpenShift subscriptions.
* Submariner now handles out of order remote endpoint notifications properly in various handlers associated with the Route Agent component.
* Submariner now ensures that reverse path filtering setting is properly applied on the `vx-submariner` and `vxlan-tunnel` interfaces after

>   they are created. This fix was necessary for RHEL9 nodes where the setting was sometimes getting overwritten.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  they are created. This fix was necessary for RHEL 9 nodes where the setting was sometimes getting overwritten.
```

* Fix intermittent failure where gateway connections sometimes don't get established.
* Fix an issue whereby the flags for `subctl unexport service` were not recognized.
* The `subctl diagnose cni` command no longer fails for the Calico CNI when the `natOutgoing` IPPool status is missing.

> * Fix CVE-2023-28840, CVE-2023-28841, and CVE-2023-28842, which don't affect us but were flagged in our deliverables.

Reviewer: Should we refer to "us" and "our"?

```suggestion
* Fix CVE-2023-28840, CVE-2023-28841, and CVE-2023-28842, which don't affect Submariner but were flagged in deliverables.
```

+++
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-duplicate-header -->

## v0.15.0

### New features

* To be compliant with the [Kubernetes Multicluster Services specification][MCS KEP], service discovery now distributes a single aggregated
  ServiceImport to each cluster in the exported service's namespace. Previously each cluster distributed its own ServiceImport copy that was
  placed in the `submariner-operator` namespace.
* Submariner can now be installed on a dual-stack Kubernetes cluster although, currently, only IPv4 addresses are supported.

> * Add support for selecting the node to schedule `submariner-operator`, `submariner-lighthouse-agent`, `submariner-lighthouse-coredns`, and

Author: @vthapar to review this. Maybe should not be a release note until we have subctl support?

Author: I went ahead and removed it.

  `submariner-networkplugin-syncer` pods using new `NodeSelector` and `Tolerations` fields on the `Submariner` and `ServiceDiscovery` specs.
* Add a `subctl recover-broker-info` command to recover lost a `broker-info.subm` file.
* It is now possible to customize the default TCP MSS clamping value set by Submariner also for non-Globalnet deployments.

> * The `subctl gather` command will now gather iptables logs for Calico and kindnet CNIs.

Reviewer: Just to be consistent with L21 et al

```suggestion
* The `subctl gather` command now gathers iptables logs for Calico and kindnet CNIs.
```

Author: This is how it's written in v0.13.4 and v0.14.2, but I can change them all.
